.TH PLICOM 1 "2025" "PCC" "PL/I Compiler"
.SH NAME
plicom \- PL/I compiler proper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plicom
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B plicom
is the PL/I compiler proper, part of the PCC (Portable C Compiler) suite. It compiles PL/I and PL/M source code to assembly language.

This command is normally invoked by the
.BR pli (1)
driver and is not typically used directly by users.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
Write output to
.IR file
instead of standard output.
.TP
.BI \-d " dialect"
Set the PL/I dialect:
.BR pli ,
.BR plm ,
.BR plm86 ,
.BR plm386 ,
.BR plc ,
or
.BR subset .
.TP
.BI \-W warning
Enable specific warning. Warnings include:
.BR unused ,
.BR conversion ,
.BR strict ,
.BR extensions ,
.BR deprecated .
.TP
.B \-w
Disable all warnings.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode. Print additional diagnostic information.
.TP
.B \-h
Display help message and exit.

.SH DIALECT FEATURES
.SS Standard PL/I
Full language support including:
.IP \(bu 2
All data types (FIXED, FLOAT, BIT, CHARACTER, POINTER, etc.)
.IP \(bu
Based and controlled storage
.IP \(bu
Multitasking (TASK, EVENT)
.IP \(bu
Exception handling (ON conditions)
.IP \(bu
Preprocessor (%DECLARE, %INCLUDE)
.IP \(bu
Picture specifications
.IP \(bu
File I/O (stream and record)

.SS PL/M
Simplified dialect for embedded systems:
.IP \(bu 2
Hardware I/O (INPUT/OUTPUT)
.IP \(bu
LITERALLY macros
.IP \(bu
AT clause for absolute addressing
.IP \(bu
INTERRUPT procedures
.IP \(bu
BYTE/WORD/DWORD types
.IP \(bu
Limited to essential features

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B plicom
produces Clang-style diagnostics with source context:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
example.pli:5:12: error: undeclared identifier 'foo'
    CALL foo();
         ^
.fi
.in

Diagnostics include:
.IP \(bu 2
Severity levels: note, warning, error, fatal
.IP \(bu
Source file location
.IP \(bu
Column indicators
.IP \(bu
Source line context
.IP \(bu
Color output (on TTY)

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful compilation
.TP
.B 1
Compilation errors
.TP
.B 2
Invalid arguments or system error

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Compile PL/I source to assembly:
.RS
.nf
plicom \-o program.s program.pli
.fi
.RE

.PP
Compile with dialect specification:
.RS
.nf
plicom \-d plm86 \-o firmware.s firmware.plm
.fi
.RE

.PP
Enable warnings:
.RS
.nf
plicom \-Wunused \-Wstrict program.pli
.fi
.RE

.SH FILES
.I /usr/local/libexec/plicom
.br
.I /usr/local/lib/libpli.a

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pli (1),
.BR cc (1),
.BR as (1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/pcc/pcc/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Written as part of the Portable C Compiler (PCC) project.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 PCC Project.
